BrainGlobe track 2026 (#199)
neuroinformatics-unit/neuroinformatics-unit.github.io: docs/source/open-software-summer-school/2026/brainglobe.md

(track-brainglobe-2026)=
# Track: BrainGlobe

> The [BrainGlobe Initiative](https://brainglobe.info) provides easy-to-use tools to analyse brain histology data, particularly from whole-brain imaging methods (e.g. serial section two-photon, lightsheet).

Author: I think so. We'd have to communicate that we need at least a whole hemisphere imaged for registration to work. I'm not ready to commit to having sub-region selection ready, even in a manual manner.

> The [BrainGlobe Initiative](https://brainglobe.info) provides easy-to-use tools to analyse brain histology data, particularly from whole-brain imaging methods (e.g. serial section two-photon, lightsheet).

Author: I've switched to using large-scale multidimensional rather than specifying 3D whole brain to make it more generic

This track will guide participants through hands-on tutorials to learn how to use BrainGlobe.

::: {admonition} Target audience
:class: note

This course is designed for researchers and students interested in learning about open-source tools for analysing and visualising brain microscopy data.
:::

## Course overview

> __Monday morning:__

Reviewer: As discussed I think we can probs omit the days/times at this stage.

__Tuesday morning:__
We will work through the following hands-on tutorials using BrainGlobe's `napari` graphical user interface.
- Registering whole-brain microscopy images with `brainreg`
- Segmenting structures in whole brain microscopy images with `brainglobe-segmentation`
- Detecting cells in large 3D images with `cellfinder`
- Analysing cell positions in atlas space with `brainmapper`
- Visualisation of data in atlas space with `brainrender` and brainrender-napari`

__Tuesday afternoon:__
We will introduce BrainGlobe's more advanced interfaces, including 
- Command line for typical workflows.
- Python API to include BrainGlobe in your own scripts
- Experimental tools for stitching, advanced registration and atlas building.

__Wednesday:__
Participants are encouraged to run BrainGlobe on their own data, discuss use cases with the development team and other 
participants or integrate BrainGlobe into their existing workflows.

## Instructors
- [Alessandro Felder](https://github.com/alessandrofelder)
- [Igor Tatarnikov](https://github.com/IgorTatarnikov)
- [Adam Tyson](https://github.com/adamltyson)

> Slides are [available online](https://brainglobe.info/course-whole-brain-microscopy-analysis/).

Reviewer: I would remove this, as these won't be our final version.

  * Detecting cells in large 3D images with [`cellfinder`](https://github.com/brainglobe/cellfinder)
  * Analysing cell positions in atlas space with [`brainmapper`](https://github.com/brainglobe/brainglobe-workflows)
  * Visualisation of data in atlas space with [`brainrender`](https://github.com/brainglobe/brainrender) and [`brainrender-napari`](https://github.com/brainglobe/brainrender-napari)
* **Programmatic access:** an introduction to interacting with BrainGlobe via scripting and the command line.

### Collaboration days

The final two days—**Thursday and Friday**—are dedicated to collaboration. We will join forces with participants from the **Extracellular Electrophysiology** track to work together on participant-led projects.

* **Skill building:** we'll start with a practical workshop on **Git and GitHub** to equip everyone with the necessary skills for collaborative coding.
* **Project-based work:** participants will self-organize into small teams to tackle projects hands-on. **Coding is not a requirement**; any idea that benefits from collaboration with other attendees is welcome. Potential project ideas include, but are not limited to:

>     * *Apply a tool:* use any learned software to analyze a new dataset (your own or a public one).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * *Apply a tool:* use your new skills to analyze a new dataset (your own or a public one).
```

    * *Give feedback:* report bugs and suggest features by raising issues on relevant open-source tools.
    * *Make a contribution:* submit a pull request to an open-source repository (support will be provided).
    * *Collaborative writing:* draft a white paper, blog post, or documentation together.

>     * *Prototype an idea:* test a cool new analysis or method on real-world data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * *Prototype an idea:* test a cool new analysis idea or method on real-world data.
```
